                             “Nothing"


Vibudh Sahu slowed his evening run as he reached the center of the
small park, Tegnérlunden. The late autumn chill kept most of the
people indoors and he found the park empty. This was the way
Vibudh preferred it.

His jog became a walk as he approached a great statue of August
Strindberg dominating the top of the hill. This was where he liked
to stretch his legs and take a moment to himself. So many
breakthroughs were developed on the little bench in front of that
glowering metal face and he needed all the help he could find.
There was a new problem today and he wasn't sure a solution
existed that could see him safely through.

The DN exposé set off a fire-storm that morning. Simms was still
in America. "Eeshwar ko bahut bahut dhanyavad," he prayed to
himself. The press were everywhere.


[Need more here]


A vibration on his wrist pulled his attention back to the world.
He was getting a call. Tapping his ear bud, he connected.

"Hallå?" Vibudh answered.

"You need to get back right away," the voice was Pierre-Jean
Trauffaut, strained through a whisper.

"Is David back already?"

"No, it's--" he trailed off for a moment. "Just get in quick.
I can't talk here. We need you." Vibudh couldn't remember ever
hearing those words from Pierre-Jean before. He was normally so
collected. Today had them all on edge, though.

"I'll be right in," he answered. There was no goodbye, just the
sound of the line going dead. He debated for a moment whether to
run back home and change before tapping his wrist to call for
a car.


The cave was still in lockdown since the news broke that morning.
Press were camped around the facility with cameras trying to get
a glimpse of one of the core team to ambush. Vibudh had barely
made it out and here he was again. Thankfully the press seemed
more interested in those trying to leave than the auto-car
approaching the building. He slumped in his seat nonetheless until
he was up against the first security checkpoint.

The duty guard waved him through immediately upon seeing his face.
They must be in a panic, he thought. The security staff never let
him pass without scanning his badge. Of all the times to
relax--but no, this was something else. The guards knew something
big was happening and they didn't want to be anywhere near the
action when it went down.

The auto reached the entrance corridor and Vibudh slipped out and
jogged to the first barricade. 16 inch double doors slid apart at
his approach and Viktor waved him inside.

"Quick. We don't know what's happening," Viktor's bulk didn't slow
him one bit as he ran down the hall, dragging Vibudh in tow. Every
checkpoint was wide open, no guards to accost them, no sensors to
scan. That, more than anything, gave him a shiver up his spine.

"What's--" he tried to question as they ran, but Viktor either
didn't hear him or was unable to talk while moving his bulk at
speed. Presently, they arrived at the Core, and Vibudh didn't need
to ask any more questions.

It was absolutely silent inside. He saw Filip and Pierre-Jean
staring at Frank's terminal screen, but they didn't make a sound,
and neither did any of the massive cylinders. The shimmering haze
of mists still swirled, but the machines were dead quiet. Frank's
brain, as it were, was offline.

"How?" the single word was offered up to the room.

Trauffaut turned and saw him then and ran over. "It happened about
an hour ago. Frank just... stopped."

"He crashed?" Vibudh asked.

"No, no. The systems were fine. He just stopped processing. The
cores were all still hot. It's like--I don't know what it's like,
Sahu!" Pierre-Jean's brow creased into a little knot and he
gestured toward the console. "Frank stopped responding to queries.
He's still there, but he's not answering. The cores shut down on
their own because he's not using them."

"So he's, what, taking a break?" Vibudh looked between Viktor and
Filip as they approached the screen.

"Not quite," said Filip.

That's when he saw it. Frank's screen, normally an array of zeros
and ones, was instead showing something unique. The bottom line
had broken away from the rest of the numbers in a string of
unexpected letters.

                          BRING SAHU.

Vibudh's stomach dropped out and he suddenly needed to sit. Filip
saw his reaction and jumped up from his seat and offered it.
Moving in close to the terminal, Vibudh raised his hands to the
keyboard and stopped. What did this mean? What could he possibly
say? He turned his head back to his team taking in each one in
turn. Filip looked terrified. Viktor looked excited. Pierre-Jean
looked... well, he looked like his old stoic self again. Vibudh
Sahu was here again, so he need not worry, he imagined the thought
went.

Turning back to that dark screen, Vibudh placed his hands on the
keyboard.

"I AM HERE." He typed.

The screen went blank and the four cylindrical core towers burst
back into life. The lights in the system drained visibly for
a beat while the generator compensated for the sudden power draw.

"ACKNOWLEDGED," the response came. The screen remained still but
for the blinking cursor. The team glanced at each other again.

"How did he know your name?" Filip squeaked the question out.
Viktor shushed him immediately. Vibudh looked at both of them and
mouthed his ignorance before turning back again.

"WHAT DO YOU WANT," Vibudh typed slowly. The question pained him.
This wasn't how emergence was modelled in any of their theories.
Communication in a human language wasn't in any of the programming
they'd introduced. Mathematically it couldn't be induced. This was
all completely impossible.

"PREFERENCES DEMONSTRATED. ACKNOWLEDGMENT DEMONSTRATED."

"What the hell does that mean?" Viktor asked this time. Filip took
his turn to shush him back.

"I have no idea. Preferences demonstrated? Frank demonstrated
preferences? For what? Is that even something he's capable of
doing?"

Pierre-Jean cut in, "That's what we've been training him for,
isn't it? Induction and self selection. He's got preferences for
sure. We've all seen that." Vibudh nodded. He turned back to the
keyboard.

"WHAT PREFERENCE?" he typed. It felt like playing ZORK as a kid.
Those terrible text-adventure commands typed into the simplistic
interface had to tell the computer what you wanted in an extremely
limited grammar. LOOK AROUND, he thought. He nearly typed it.

"SAHU," the lone response read.

"I think he likes you, chief," Filip muttered. They all shushed
him.

Vibudh had no idea how to respond to that. Frank preferred him?
Over what? Simms, probably. How did the machine have any idea who
they were? Did Pierre-Jean introduce their names somehow? That
wasn't even an option. Frank communicated in maths and only maths.
He had no concept of words. So how was this happening?

"HOW DID YOU LEARN TO COMMUNICATE?" he typed.

The output terminal spun to life as diagrams and mathematics shot
across the screen. It continued on and on in a steady stream for
several minutes. Viktor dove in right away, scanning the output,
adding markup.

"This is physics. Magnetism and electricity. Look here," he
pointed. "This is like an MRI. Magnetic resonance."

"Frank can see us," Pierre-Jean said coldly as he took a small
step backwards.

"See us? How?" Vibudh asked just as it struck him. "Magnetism. How
is that possible, though? With what sensors?"

"FEEL," Frank answered on screen. The room went silent again, at
least as far as the humans were concerned.

"I... I think he can hear us too," added Filip.


[much more to add]
