Darla was pissed. Right now she should be on a plane back to the
states with a cup of coffee in her hand. Instead, she was sitting
in a bare, concrete room at a metal table somewhere in Northern
Africa. This was not what she agreed to.

A hodgepodge of papers and notebooks spread across the table
illuminated by a solitary, naked bulb hanging overhead. The chair
was as hard as rock and her ass had gone numb.

She was pissed and someone was going to deal with it. That is,
just as soon as someone showed up. She'd been in this room for
hours--surely it must be hours by now--and no one had come by.
There were no sounds from the hallway, no sound at all in this
little bunker except her own pencil scratching notes while she
cursed and muttered.

She'd thought about walking out, storming back down the halls and
finding whoever was is charge. She'd spent a solid ten minutes
daydreaming about the hole she'd tear in whoeveritwas when she
found him. Oh, it would be a him, she was sure. This was
definitely the work of a gray-haired white guy. She would go off
on him with all the fire pent up inside and what could they do?
They needed her. Not a single person in the Agency could do what
she could do. They wouldn't risk going outside either. She was in
charge, she told herself. But she didn't try the door. She didn't
voice her fear, but somewhere deep inside she worried that the
door wouldn't open if she turned the handle. This place felt too
much like a cell already.

She stared at the papers again, the esoteric mathematics and
electronics spread across them with miniscule notes beside in
a careful hand. Motivation was sorely lacking, though. Do the job,
go home. That was the deal. She'd done the damn job, but this was
not home. This was nothing like her fucking home.

Darla didn't sigh. She was not the sighing type. Sighs were sounds
of resignation, defeat. They were for weak people who got pushed
around, not brilliant scientists who could change the world. Not
for top-tier spies who could destroy an enemy's nuclear program
with a bit of code and math. Darla would not sigh, damnit. Instead
she blinked back the moisture building in her eyes, took a deep
breath and screamed.

In the echoing silence that followed she was sure footsteps would
follow. Someone would check on her and she supposed she would be
expected to be embarrased, but that wasn't her either. She could
scream all she wanted. They had kidnapped her, after all. Her own
government had kidnapped her to some black site in the desert to
do the job she was already going to do for them. It made no sense,
and she was pissed.

Also, no one was coming. Not a sound from the hallway, not a sound
in her little cell besides herself.

The papers glared at her with a taunt. They just lay there with
their mysteries, serene. "You'll never understand me," they said.
"You're too stupid," she could almost hear them. "And fat, too."
This whole thing was fucked.

She definitely didn't sigh as she picked up her latest round of
notes and compared figures with one of the sheets. This was some
of the original work that the Stockholm team had put together. She
thought she had a handle on it all at first, following the
traditional patterns and principles of quantum computing design,
but then the changes started to show up. Where she'd expect to
find one thing she found the opposite, or nothing at all. This
design wasn't just a modification on what the NSA had in Utah,
this was something totally different. It wasn't the difference of
architecture alone, but of core concept. There were new quantum
theories at play here that she didn't know anything about, and
that was a real problem.

Darla Moss was a badass, brilliant scientist who worked for the
United States government. She was backed by unlimited funds and
