                          "Unknown"

David Simms sat alone in his Manhattan office staring out the
window at the skyline. The setting sun lit his view immaculately,
and he watched the people and boats skitter by. In his head they
moved in fast-forward, off on little errands of no importance,
fulfilling the role of cogs in a vast machine of humanity. These
were the worker bees, the drone ants, the slaves of wage. They
were his subjects like any king of the ages past, but for one
important difference. David Simms was not responsible for
protecting this trash. The service went one way, from the bottom
to the top, as nature demanded.

The king is all powerful and lives in luxury, but the king is only
remembered for what he does. David Simms was not going to be
a forgotten king. His legacy had already begun, and there would be
no stopping it. Alexander conquered the world. Khan did the same.
Caesar, yet again. That would all be a trifle behind Simms'
machine.

"Frank," he said aloud. He wasn't pleased with the name. It was
supposed to be named after him. He'd printed the letters on the
machine, hadn't he? But once the press had a name there was no
point trying to change it.

It would grow and learn and evolve and soon, very soon, it would
be sentient. It would be alive. Yes, alive, dammit. If the press
were going to use the word then he must embrace it or seem a fool.
Besides, creating life didn't make you a king. It made you a god.

There were steps left to take, surely. Little things to feed to
the machine to ensure it stayed on track. But it was his just as
surely as any of these other servants. And he had plans for Frank.
