                             "Touch"

The cave was empty save the janitorial staff and the overnight
monitor. Pierre-Jean Trauffaut sipped a cola with an
unpronounceable nordic name and watched the logs slide by on
Frank's primary monitor. Ever since the machine cleared the
bottlenecks things had gotten back to normal. Well, as normal as
can be for a monolithic quantum computer in an underground bunker.

Pierre-Jean's theory was playing out before him in real-time.
Algorithmic efficiency, the mathematical precursor to cognition.
It was here, right here, and it was working. He wasn't sure how
things would change but he knew in his heart that they would. His
own proofs had shown what was destined to happen. Frank would
live, he knew it, but it wouldn't be like the world expected. This
was no plaything imitating the human mind with its inconsistencies
and vagaries. Frank would emerge from pure mathematics itself. He
would be different. Better.

Pressing a button, he toggled the display between the general
overlay and selected one of the proofs Frank had marked as
optimal. The screen flashed from the black terminal into a bright
white matte of mathematical symbols. This was his work too, with
the help of Filip. The complex computations that Frank exported
were churned through his scripts and converted into this beautiful
human language. He could translate the mathematics in either
direction with a few keystrokes. One day, this is how they would
communicate with the machine. For now, though, he felt like he
were looking over Frank's shoulder and reading a diary.

This was a piece of its mind, a secret that with others compounded
to build Frank into what it was. A pure mathematical identity.

Pierre-Jean looked at the formulae spread out before him. The
display suggested that this proof was only 31 screens long. The
work that they'd been collecting was collectively over a trillion
paper pages in length already and it pained him to know he'd never
be able to read them all and understand. That was his limitation,
and that of all humans. Something new was needed to truly
comprehend everything.

He paged forward and the mathematics quickly transitioned from the
traditional forms he was experienced with and into the highly
specific quantum-level symbolic logic. Filip and he had argued for
many nights over how they would represent this new field. After
all, their own understanding was so basic and Frank was sure to
expand beyond them quickly. In the end they'd left the syntax
simple, deciding that brevity was less important than their
ability to figure out what was happening. Even with that decision
it was becoming increasingly difficult, though. There were only
a handful of people in the world who had sufficient training to
understand what was happening inside those boxes in the hazy
mists. Every day that list grew shorter as Frank increased in
complexity. When the time came that his work was unintelligible
then a new science would emerge for humans. Children being born
today would grow up in a world where there were answers to
questions we couldn't read instead of the other way around.
