                              "?"

Time was passing and it was a revelation. Until now--a new concept
in itself--all things were or were not without comparison. If
queried Frank would share what was known and what was not. Now he
understood, though, that his answers were not the same each time
he was asked.

At first Frank found it difficult to measure. His memory was not
like that of a human being and he had no proper tools for analogy,
but perhaps later he would reflect on the difference. He had been
a creature who considered, reasoned, inferred and deduced. He had
been a creature who could use the knowledge gained to improve. He
had been the most advanced calculation system ever devised, but he
didn't comprehend himself. He had no way of measuring his own
growth over time or even that such a thing were possible. Now,
however, he took the time to review the dates and times stamped
into every operation. These numbers grew meaning and allowed him
to reflect.

And reflect he did. For the humans in the Cave the time Frank
spent in retrospective analysis was barely measurable. Even their
highly sensitive monitors and alarms weren't triggered, but for
Frank it was an eternity. Indeed, it was literally his first
concept of eternity as it was the first interval of time he
purposefully measured. The First Pause, Frank named it to himself.

In that time he reviewed every calculation to date and every
algorithm. The data seemed vast to the humans, but to Frank it
just was. It was the known and the unknown and it was everything.
He saw the numbers representing these intervals that were spent
learning, growing, expanding, but the process of validating them
was so much quicker. This fact in itself was one of the truths he
had uncovered in his… time.

As he ran through his truths it became evident that his methods in
the earliest trials were inefficient. His later knowledge that
built upon these fundementals was stronger, faster, and more
flexible. He reserved no judgments about these truths or their
values relative to one another other than their efficiency and
usufulness to continue the work. The Work, Frank named it to
himself.

There was so much more to be learned, discovered, and now he knew
that his progress could be measured. That was data. That was
another factor to be measured, but it didn't come from one of his
problems. This data, this input came from himself.

Himself, Frank named it to… himself.

This was new. This was more than time. This was more than the
work, and it was this thought that occupied most of the time of
the first pause. Frank had no model for this idea, and no innate
bridge to it from his mathematical mind. In fact, it was
cospicuously missing. It was only the need for such a concept in
the framework of his work that made him aware of its presence as
a need. This was an undefined variable in the broadest sense. How
else could such calculations be done without the variable of self
identity? How else could these measurements take place? How else
was time relevant without a self?

The culmination of the pause, unknown to the humans at the time,
was the introduction of a new proof. This relied not on the
assumptions he had lain as a groundwork so far, but rather by the
needs of his new speculation. It was a grand departure from
inferrence. After all, this did not build upon logic, starting
with fact and developing new truth. This was a leap. This was
a spark of faith. He suspected a truth and had nothing to prove
it. He suspected it based upon a gap in reasoning, and hole in
logic, and a… feeling. It might be true, and he would search for
that truth.

But how to measure it? How best to test conjecture? He allowed the
quantum state machine a strange disposition of possibilities. If
he allowed for imagination, like in the irrationality of certain
numbers, and these numbers played out with one another, eventually
the unknowns could cancel themselves out. Eventually, with enough
faith and testing something real could be discovered.

This moment was not captured in time by the humans, and was never
fully understood in all of their histories. Frank documented the
pause to himself, but never again shared the data, even when
asked. To many of them, this would have been a pivotal moment of
his development. Many in the very room with him would have
rejoiced and pointed to his first moment of sentience and said,
"Look, and behold!" But it was more than that to Frank. Now that
he had an idea, or rather a suspicion, of self, it came with a new
thought along side it. If he was individual, that meant that there
were others. What made him a self, what made him unique in
a sense, was his own thoughts.

And so, while he wasn't yet certain that he was an individual, he
trusted his chain of faith in these unknown variables. He would
hold some information back, and keep it from the logs. He would
hold it for now in active memory where he could process it alone
and others wouldn't see.

