----------------------------------------
Paper bag book cover
----------------------------------------

To make a book cover out of a paper bag you will need:

- A paper bag from a supermarket or similar
- Scissors
- A book to cover


Step 1: Cutting the bag

We want to start by creating one large rectangle to work with. To
do this start by cutting out the very bottom of the bag. Next,
identify the one seam remaining an cut down its length.

Step 2: Sizing the bag to your book (horizontally)

Lay down your book, paper side up, on top of your rectangle in the
following way:

  +-----------------------------------------------------+
  |                                    Paper Rectangle  |
  |         =====================                       |
  |         |         .         |                       |
  |         |  Front  .  Back   |                       |
  |         |  Cover  .  Cover  |                       |
  |         |         .         |                       |
  |         =====================                       |
  |                                                     |
  +-----------------------------------------------------+

Fold over the left edge of the paper onto the front cover, leaving
approximately 2 inches between the edge of the paper and the
binding of the book. 

Fold the right edge tightly around the back cover of the book in
the same way so that the paper fits snugly across the back of the
book. You will have extra paper on the right side that extends
past the center binding. Cut this extra paper so that the right
side is also about 2 inches from the binding of the book.

When you close the book the paper will not reach quite so far into
the front and back covers. This is okay.

Step 3: Sizing the bag to your book (vertically)

You should now have something that looks like this:

                      Paper Rectangle
                  +----+----------+-----+
                  |    |          |     |
 Book top edge    |=====================|
                  ||   |     .    |    ||
                  ||  Front  .  Back   ||
                  ||  Cover  .  Cover  ||
                  ||   |     .    |    ||
 Book bottom edge |=====================|
                  |    |          |     |
                  +----+----------+-----+

Temporarily unfold your left and right edges of the paper as we
create our top and bottom folds.

Begin a new crease on the paper bag along the bottom edge of your
book. Once started, remove the book completely and continue that
folded edge all the way across.

Place your book back on top of the paper and start a new crease
along the top edge of the book. Remove the book completely and
continue  that folded edge all the way across.

Step 4: Put on your cover

Place your book back on top of the paper. It should now look like
this:


 Folded edge  +--- =====================--- +
              |    |         .         |    |
              |    |  Front  .  Back   |    |
              |    |  Cover  .  Cover  |    |
              |    |         .         |    |
 Folded edge  +----=====================----+

Fold the left side of the pape over the front cover once again.
This time take note of the "slot" that exists at the end of the
paper created by the top and bottom folds. Slide the edge of the
front cover into this slot so that the paper "hugs" the cover.

Repeat the process on the right side, pulling both edges of paper
as far as possible onto the covers and toward the binding.

When you close the book the cover will stretch tightly around your
beautiful book creating a smooth cover.

Now, grab a sharpie and decorate!
