----------------------------------------
Role Playing Games
August 28th, 2017
----------------------------------------

I love table-top role playing games. They might, in fact, be my #1
favorite thing to do in the world. I love the different systems: Dungeons
& Dragons, Pathfinder, Mouse Guard, Fate, The Riddle of Steel, Numenera,
even the White Wolf stuff. I just adore jumping into adventures and
becoming the characters with no boundaries but imagination, and doing it
all with a bunch of friends.

Sadly, I haven't played in a real RPG in years. There was a campaign that
was going to run about five years ago, but we only had two adventures
before some of the players moved away. Before that I have to go back
another five years to a time I tried running a game online via Skype or
Teamspeak or whatever was the fad. It fell apart in just two games, being
unable to maintain order in the group without seeing one another. No, for
a real game I have to look back to my college days in Indiana, playing
super hero campaigns. I loved it and gladly travelled an hour each way to
play every week.

So, it's with both excitement and trepidation that I am joining a new
game. This will be played online but with webcams we hope will fix the
problem of focus. All of the players are veterans and eager to join.
Finally, it's a continuation or extension of a wildly successful campaign
that we played in college.

In this game, the players are all members of a thieves guild. We have
known each other for years and treat each other as family, regardless of
alignment choices. Outside of our group, we can rob, steal, murder, or
otherwise cause any mayhem and mischief we want to achieve our goals. The
game primarily takes place within one large city. I'm building the initial
map of the city and my character will maintain it in-game. It's thrilling!

Are any of you gamers?
